doc: Add template for applications (#9360)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/templates/application_README.rst

.. _application:

Template: Application
#####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. note::

>    * Give the application a concise name that corresponds to the folder name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Provide a concise name to the application, which corresponds to the folder name.
```

     If the application targets a specific device, add it in the title before the application name (for example, "nRF9160:").
     Do not include the word "application" in the title.
   * Put the documentation inside the :file:`applications` folder and use the file name :file:`README.rst`.
   * Use the provided stock phrases and includes when possible.
   * Sections with * are optional and can be left out.
     All other sections are required.
     Do not add new sections (unless in the sections that allow for further subsections) without discussion with the tech writer team.

> The Application application demonstrates the bridge functionality for the Thingy:91 hardware.

Author: "Application" implies the name of the application here.

> The Application application demonstrates the bridge functionality for the Thingy:91 hardware.

Reviewer 2: May be we could mention as : "The Connectivity bridge application demonstrates the bridge functionality for the Thingy:91 hardware. " just to avoid the 2 "application" here?

https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-9360/nrf/applications/connectivity_bridge/README.html

> The Application application demonstrates the bridge functionality for the Thingy:91 hardware.

Author: This is done not to specify any applications name and keep it general. Also, to be consistent with the sample template as well: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/templates/sample_README.html

> The Application application demonstrates the bridge functionality for the Thingy:91 hardware.

Author: Changed to "XYZ" application as a possible solution.

   * If only one kit is supported, replace the introduction text with "The application supports the following development kit:".
   * If several kits are required to test the application, state it after the table (for example, "You can use one or more of the development kits listed above and mix different development kits.").
   * Mention additional requirements after the table.
   * If TFM is included in the application, add ``.. include:: /includes/tfm.txt`` to include the standard text that states this.

The application supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf52dk_nrf52832, nrf52840dk_nrf52840

The application also requires ...

User interface*
***************
.. note::
   Add button and LED assignments here, with other information related to the user interface (for example, supported commands).

Button 1:
   Does something.

Button 2:
   Toggles something.

LED 1:
   On when connected.

LED 2:
   Indicates something.

Configuration*
**************

.. note::

>    Always include this section if your application can be configured by the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Always include this section if the user can configure the application.
```

You can find the configuration files in the :file:`XXX` directory.

The following files are available:

* :file:`filename.conf` - Specific scenario.
  This configuration file ...

Building and running
********************

.. note::
   * Include the standard text for building - either ``.. include:: /includes/application_build_and_run.txt`` or ``.. include:: /includes/application_build_and_run_ns.txt`` for the build targets that use :ref:`Cortex-M Security Extensions <app_boards_spe_nspe>`.
   * The main supported IDE for |NCS| is |VSC|, with the |nRFVSC| installed.
     Therefore, build instructions for the |nRFVSC| are required.
     Build instructions for the command line are optional.
   * See the link to the `nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code`_ documentation site for basic instructions on building with the extension.
   * If the application uses a non-standard setup, point it out and link to more information, if possible.

.. |application path| replace:: :file:`applications/XXX`

.. include:: /includes/application_build_and_run.txt

Some title*
===========

.. note::
   If required, add subsections for additional build instructions.

>    Use these subsections sparingly and only if the content does not fit into other sections (mainly Configuration).

Reviewer: I think the link should work here.
```suggestion
   Use these subsections sparingly and only if the content does not fit into other sections (mainly `Configuration`_).
```

   If the additional build instructions are valid for other applications as well, consider adding them to the :ref:`getting_started` section instead and linking to them.

Testing
=======

|test_application|

#. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|
#. Reset the development kit.
#. And so on ...

.. note::
   * Use the shortcuts provided in :file:`doc/nrf/shortcuts.txt` to keep the wording consistent.
   * If there are different ways of testing, introduce them in this section (for example, "After programming the application to your development kit, you can test it either by ...") and add subsections for the different scenarios.

Application output*
===================

.. note::

>    Add the full output of the application in this section, or include parts of the output in the testing steps in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Add the full output of the application in this section or include parts of the output in the testing steps in the previous section.
```

The application shows the following output:

.. code-block:: console

   [00:00:02.029,174] <inf> zigbee_app_utils: Zigbee stack initialized

Applications and samples*
*************************

.. note::
   Add details about the projects and samples that implement or show aspects of the application.

References*
***********

.. note::

>    Provide a link to any other documentation for the user to get more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Provide a link to other relevant documentation for the user to get more information.
```

.. tip::
   * Do not duplicate links that have been mentioned in other sections before.
   * Do not include links to documents that are common to all or many of our applications.

Dependencies*
*************

.. note::
   * List all relevant dependencies, for example, libraries, other tool or service (third-party) references, certification requirements (if applicable).

>    * Standard libraries (for example, types.h, errno.h, or printk.h) do not need to be listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Standard libraries (for example, :file:`types.h`, :file:`errno.h`, or :file:`printk.h`) need not be listed.
```

   * Delete the parts that are not relevant.
   * Drivers can be listed under libraries.
   * If possible, link to the respective dependency.
     If there is no documentation for the dependency, include the path.
   * Add the appropriate secure firmware component that the application supports.

This application uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:`app_event_manager`
* :ref:`lib_aws_iot`

It uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ library:

* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem`

It uses the following Zephyr libraries:

* :ref:`zephyr:logging_api`
* :ref:`zephyr:kernel_api`:

  * :file:`include/kernel.h`

In addition, it uses the following secure firmware component:

* :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>`

The application also uses drivers from `nrfx`_.

Internal modules*
*****************

.. note::
   Add this section if there are internal modules that must be documented.

API documentation*
******************

.. note::

>    Add this section if the application uses API documentation as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Add the following section if the application uses API documentation:
```

   .. code-block::

>       | Header file: :file:`*indicate_the_path*`
>       | Source files: :file:`*indicate_the_path*`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      | Header file: :file:`*provide_the_path*`
      | Source files: :file:`*provide_the_path*`
```

===========

.. note::
   If required, add subsections for additional build instructions.
   Use these subsections sparingly and only if the content does not fit into other sections (mainly `Configuration*`_).
   If the additional build instructions are valid for other applications as well, consider adding them to the :ref:`getting_started` section instead and linking to them.

Testing
=======

|test_application|

#. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|
#. Reset the development kit.
#. And so on ...

.. note::
   * Use the shortcuts provided in :file:`doc/nrf/shortcuts.txt` to keep the wording consistent.
   * If there are different ways of testing, introduce them in this section (for example, "After programming the application to your development kit, you can test it either by ...") and add subsections for the different scenarios.

Application output*
===================

.. note::
   Add the full output of the application in this section or include parts of the output in the testing steps in the previous section.

The application shows the following output:

.. code-block:: console

   [00:00:02.029,174] <inf> zigbee_app_utils: Zigbee stack initialized

Applications and samples*

> *************************

Reviewer: Should we modify this heading as 'Implementation in other applications and samples'

.. note::

>    Add details about the projects and samples that implement or show aspects of the application.

Author: Updated as per the discussion offline.

References*
***********

.. note::
   Provide a link to other relevant documentation for the user to get more information.

.. tip::
   * Do not duplicate links that have been mentioned in other sections before.

>    * Do not include links to documents that are common to all or many of our applications.

Author: Made changes as per the offline discussion.

Dependencies*
*************

.. note::
   * List all relevant dependencies, for example, libraries, other tool or service (third-party) references, certification requirements (if applicable).
   * Standard libraries (for example, :file:`types.h`, :file:`errno.h`, or :file:`printk.h`) need not be listed.
   * Delete the parts that are not relevant.
   * Drivers can be listed under libraries.
   * If possible, link to the respective dependency.
     If there is no documentation for the dependency, include the path.
   * Add the appropriate secure firmware component that the application supports.

This application uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:`app_event_manager`
* :ref:`lib_aws_iot`

It uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ library:

* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem`

It uses the following Zephyr libraries:

* :ref:`zephyr:logging_api`
* :ref:`zephyr:kernel_api`:

  * :file:`include/kernel.h`

In addition, it uses the following secure firmware component:

* :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>`

The application also uses drivers from `nrfx`_.

Internal modules*
*****************

.. note::

>    Add this section if there are internal modules that must be documented.

Reviewer: Agree.

API documentation*
******************

.. note::
   Add the following section if the application uses API documentation:

>    .. code-block::
> 
>       | Header file: :file:`*provide_the_path*`
>       | Source files: :file:`*provide_the_path*`
> 
>       .. doxygengroup:: *doxygen_group_name*
>          :project: *project_name*
>          :members:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block::

   | Header file: :file:`*provide_the_path*`
   | Source files: :file:`*provide_the_path*`

   .. doxygengroup:: *doxygen_group_name*
      :project: *project_name*
      :members:
```

Some title*
===========

.. note::
   If required, add subsections for additional build instructions.
   Use these subsections sparingly and only if the content does not fit into other sections (mainly `Configuration*`_).
   If the additional build instructions are valid for other applications as well, consider adding them to the :ref:`getting_started` section instead and linking to them.

Testing
=======

|test_application|

#. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|
#. Reset the development kit.
#. And so on ...

.. note::
   * Use the shortcuts provided in :file:`doc/nrf/shortcuts.txt` to keep the wording consistent.
   * If there are different ways of testing, introduce them in this section (for example, "After programming the application to your development kit, you can test it either by ...") and add subsections for the different scenarios.

Application output*
===================

.. note::
   Add the full output of the application in this section or include parts of the output in the testing steps in the previous section.

The application shows the following output:

.. code-block:: console

   [00:00:02.029,174] <inf> zigbee_app_utils: Zigbee stack initialized

> References*
> ***********
> 
> .. note::
>    Provide a link to other relevant documentation for the user to get more information.
> 
> .. tip::
>    Do not include links to documents that are common to all or many of our applications. For example, :ref:`getting_started` section.
> 
> Implementation in other applications and samples*
> =================================================
> 
> .. note::
>    * Add details about the projects that demonstrate or implement the application.
>    * Add details about the samples that show aspects of the application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
References*
***********

.. note::
   Provide a link to other relevant documentation for the user to get more information.

.. tip::
   Do not include links to documents that are common to all or many of our applications. For example, :ref:`getting_started` section.

Related projects and applications*
==================================

.. note::
   * Add links to projects and/or applications that demonstrate or implement some or all of the features of this application. For example, the Asset Tracker v2 application is part of the Asset Tracker project. Matter Weather Station application is part of the Matter project, and so on.

Related samples*
=========================

.. note::
   * Add links to the samples that show aspects of the application. A sample showcases one feature or component. An application uses several features or components. Include links to samples that showcase features included in the application.
```

Author: @umapraseeda , @divipillai @b-gent : Your thoughts on this change?

Reviewer 2: Regarding : "For example, the Asset Tracker v2 application is part of the Asset Tracker project." - As per my understanding both are different. Both use nRF9160 DK or Thingy:91 but the implementation is different.
Asset tracker project : https://nordicsemiconductor.github.io/asset-tracker-cloud-docs/v2.1.x/docs/project/Index.html
Asset tracker application : https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/applications/asset_tracker_v2/README.html
I think Its would be better to remove this sentence.

Reviewer 3: The sentence about Asset Tracker can go. What is crucial in this edit is the structure of the sections, which matches the original proposal from Joel.
